Today we're gonna be talking about
the complete intro to Real time.
So that we're gonna be talking about
like Websockets, Polling, HTTP/2 PUSH,
a lot of other really fun stuff that
I'm really excited to get started on.
What you see in front of you on your
screen right now is the course website.
Just go ahead and hop over there.
I actually have a link here for you,
you can just type, bit.ly/intro-realtime.
Make that a bit bigger for
you so you can see it.
This one right here.
You can also just type this in, but
this just seems hard to type that much.
And that should take you to
this lovely website here.
So just you know,
these are my actual teaching notes.
That's what I have here on this laptop.
What I'm glancing over there,
I'm literally just looking
at the same website as you.
So if you feel like you get behind or
you want to go review something or
you want to share something with your
colleague at work or something like that,
go ahead and do that.
This is all open source and available and
so, because it's open source,
if you see any spelling mistakes,
please open a pull request.
So without getting much more into it, the
one thing I noticed during these videos,
I'll be in various
different sections of this.
That's what this thing
up here at the top is.
So you can see the name of the section and
the name of the chapter that we're in.
So we're in the introduction, right.
So you can kind of see where
I am at all times as well.
So let's go ahead and
get into the introduction here.
So we're gonna be talking about real
time today, and when I say real time,
what I just mean,
is you have some sort of server state and
some sort of client state, and
you want them to be the same, right?
Whether that's, a chat client,
which is what we're gonna be doing today,
sending messages back and forth.
And if I send a message,
I want everyone to see it, right?
So that'd be me sending
a message to the server and
then the server broadcasting that.
That could be like the status of
your order on DoorDash, right?
You wanna be able to see,
at what point are they so
a lot of like GPS mapping
stuff applies here.
Just anything that needs to happen
faster than every couple of seconds.
You want it be kind of happening
as things are updating here.
We're gonna start from like
the lowest level abstraction.
If you've watched any
of my courses before,
you're kind of used to me taking this
approach, this first principles approach.
We're gonna be building
Polling by hands or
we're gonna actually just
be doing a lot of requests.
Then we're gonna, move up the stack
here and try HTTP/2 PUSH,
and eventually WebSockets and Socket.IO.
So yeah, that's kind of the gist of
what you're gonna be learning today.
It's a lot of really fun stuff,
we'll be learning a lot of low level stuff
that you actually want to do when you go
back to your day job or
whatever cool projects you're working on.
However, they will teach you
how to be better programmers.
They'll teach you how to use
your abstractions better.
Yeah, I find these things super
useful to know like the lower level
principles that I can build
better things on top of it.
So who are you,
if you're watching this course?
Hopefully, you know JavaScript, that's
kind of my base level requirement here is
that you have some JavaScript knowledge.
If you don't feel comfortable with that,
yeah,
you can take this course next but
you should just go in and
check out the Boot Camp from Frontend
Masters, they'll definitely help you out.
There's also an Intro to Web Dev v2,
both of which I helped to teach.
If this is your first exposure to Node.js,
this might have some questions for you.
There's a course on Frontend Masters
from Scott Moss that's really awesome
on that as well.
One more I didn't call out on here.
If this is your first
exposure to the command line,
there's a couple portions that
might be a little odd for you.
And there's a course that I taught
on the command line as well.
But that was probably less required.
So yeah,
lots of good stuff on Frontend Masters.
It all kind of builds up to
into one complete picture.
Who am I?
I'm Brian.
I hope we've established that by now,
I might say it a couple more times.
[LAUGH] I'm the product manager
of developer products at Stripe.
Which means that if you ever need
something or payment processing kind of
stuff and you need tools to do that,
that's the stuff I do.
So I manage the VS code extension,
I manage the command line.
A bunch of other stuff too.
Previously, I've been at Reddit,
Netflix, LinkedIn, Microsoft,
I've done a lot of these things
actually out in production.
So I'm not just making things up, right?
These are actually the things that I've
learned during my time at these various
different companies.
In particular at Reddit and Netflix,
I actually did a lot of real time.
We did real time chat at Reddit, and a lot
of these things that I'm teaching here,
I actually learned back
when I was at Reddit.
Currently in Seattle.
I have a very cute dog, that I have
a very large picture of her up here.
And feel free to catch up
with me on social media.
I had to put my links in here,
I'm very bad at responding to DMs.
But yeah, if you see something amiss with
the course please just open an issue here.
I left a link here so you can just go,
you can either just leave an issue open
a pull request, that's always,
super helpful to me.
>> So I don't need to know about
Express and writing API's and
node, to learn the Realtime aspects or
are you doing API's?
>> That's a valid question.
Do you need to know API's to
follow this course very well?
It will definitely help for sure.
I think you would be
fine not having done it.
That being said, these things go together.
So, if you're gonna take this course, you
should probably immediately take the API
one from Scott on here as well, cuz
they're just gonna go together super well.